
 [Home](https://ubw-q.github.io/BG)  | [Teaching](https://ubw-q.github.io/teaching) |  [Research](https://ymsc-geometry.github.io/xkyang/reseach)  |  [Publications](https://ubw-q.github.io/publications)  |  [Activity](https://ubw-q.github.io/activity)  |  [CV](https://ubw-q.github.io/cv)  



<span style="font-color:blue;font-size:28px;"> 

My research interests lie in the intersection between differential geometry and algebraic geometry. Some specific topics are: Riemannian geometry, Kähler geometry, Calabi-Yau manifolds, almost-complex, symplectic and Hermitian geometry, geometric flows, complex Monge-Ampère equations, transcendental and algebraic methods in algebraic geometry.



The following are some of my recent works:

Xiaokui Yang,  RC positivity, rational connectedness and Yau's conjecture.  Camb. J. Math. 6 (2018), 183-212.
In this paper, we introduce a new curvature notion "RC-positivity" for abstract vector bundles and by using this notion we prove a long-standing conjecture of S.-T. Yau (Problem 47 of his Problem Section, 1982 ) affirmatively that compact Kahler manifolds with positive holomorphic sectional curvature must be algebraic and rationally connected.



K.-F. Liu, S. Rao, Xiaokui Yang,  Quasi-isometry and deformations of Calabi-Yau manifolds.  Invent. Math. 199 (2015), no. 2, 423-453. 
We prove that the formal expansion of Beltrami differentials for the deformation of Calabi-Yau manifolds has at least radius 1 which was previously well-known to be sufficiently small (Kodaira-Spencer-Kuranishi theory). The proof is based on two Hodge-theoretical theorems on general compact Kahler manifolds and also the hypoelliptic theory of holomorphic currents of pure-type. For two Hodge-theoretical results, one (so called “quasi-isometry”) is an analogue of Hormander’s classical L2-estimates, and the other one is analogous to Cartan’s formula, which is also a generalization of the well-known Tian-Todorov Lemma on Calabi-Yau manifolds.



Xiaokui Yang,  A partial converse to the Andreotti-Grauert theorem.    Compositio Math.  155  (2019)  no. 1, 89-99. 
In this paper, we prove that on a compact complex manifold, the dual line bundle L* is not pseudo-effective if and only if L is RC-positive, i.e. it admits a smooth Hermitian metric such that its Ricci curvature has at least one positive eigenvalue everywhere. By using this result we obtain a weak dual of the classical Cartan-Serre-Grothendieck-Kodaira theorem. Moreover, we establish that a projective manifold is uniruled if and only if its first Chern class is RC-positive, i.e. there exists a smooth Kahler metric such that its Ricci curvature is RC-positive, which was also conjectured by S.-T. Yau.



 V. Tosatti, Xiaokui Yang,  An extension of a theorem of Wu-Yau.  J. Differential Geom. 107 (2017), no.3, 573-579.
In this paper, we prove that if a compact Kahler manifold has non-positive holomoprhic sectional curvature then its canonical line bundle is nef, and if it has a Kahler metric with negative holomorphic sectional curvature, then its canonical line bundle is ample. It solves a conjecture of S.-T. Yau in 1970s. The proof is based on Wu-Yau's method.



V. Tosatti, Y. Wang, B. Weinkove, Xiaokui Yang,  C^{2,α} estimates for nonlinear elliptic equations in complex and almost complex geometry.  Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations. 54 (2015), no.1, 431-453.
We describe how to use the perturbation theory of Caffarelli to prove Evans-Krylov type C^{2,α} estimates for solutions of nonlinear elliptic equations in complex geometry, assuming a bound on the Laplacian of the solution. Our results can be used to replace the various Evans-Krylov type arguments in the complex geometry literature with a sharper and more unified approach. In addition, our methods extend to almost-complex manifolds, and we use this to obtain a new local estimate for an equation of Donaldson.



K.-F. Liu, Xiaokui Yang,  Curvatures of direct image sheaves of vector bundles and applications I.  J. Differential Geom. 98 (2014), 117-145. 
We derive explicit curvature formulas for the direct image sheaf p_* (KX/S \tensor E) on the family and obtain a number of positivity and vanishing theorems when E is positive, which generalize and simplify a number of recent results by Berndtsson and Takayama-Mourougane. As applications, we apply these formulas to study the moduli space of projectively flat vector bundles.



 D. Li, W.-H. Ou, Xiaokui Yang, On projective varieties with strictly nef tangent bundles.  J. Math. Pures Appl.  128 (2019) 140-151.
In this paper, we prove that if a projective manifold has strictly nef tangent bundle, then it is isormorphic to the projective space. Moreover, if it has strictly nef anti-canonical line bundle, then it is rationally connected.



V. Tosatti,  B. Weinkove, Xiaokui Yang, The Kahler-Ricci flow, Ricci-flat metrics and collapsing limits.  Amer. J. Math. 140 (2018), no.3, 653-698. 
We investigate the Kahler-Ricci flow on holomorphic fiber spaces whose generic fiber is a Calabi-Yau manifold. We establish uniform metric convergence to a metric on the base, away from the singular fibers, and show that the rescaled metrics on the fibers converge to Ricci-flat Kahler metrics. This strengthens previous work of Song-Tian and others. We obtain analogous results for degenerations of Ricci-flat Kahler metrics.



Xiaokui Yang,  RC-positivity and the generalized energy density I: Rigidity.  (arXiv:1810.03276)
In this paper, we introduce a new energy density for smooth maps between Riemannian manifolds. By using this new energy density, we get a transparent explanation of Yau's Schwarz inequality in the setting of RC-positivity. In particular, we obtain various new rigidity theorems for holomorphic maps, pluri-harmonic maps and harmonic maps. For instance, we prove that a holomoprhic map from a compact Hermitian manifold with positive (resp. non-negative) holomorphic sectional curvature to a Hermitian manifold with non-positive (resp. negative) holomorphic sectional curvature must be constant.



B.-L. Chen, Xiaokui Yang,  On Euler characteristic and fundamental groups of compact manifolds. (arXiv:1711.03309) 
Let M be a compact Riemannian manifold, π:N→M be the universal covering and ω be a smooth 2-form on M with π^∗ω cohomologous to zero. Suppose the fundamental group π_1(M) satisfies certain radial quadratic (resp. linear) isoperimetric inequality, we show that there exists a smooth 1-form η on N of linear (resp. bounded) growth such that π^∗ω=dη. As applications, we prove that on a compact Kahler manifold (M,ω) with π^∗ω cohomologous to zero, if π_1(M) is CAT(0) or automatic (resp. hyperbolic), then M is Kahler non-elliptic (resp. Kahler hyperbolic) and the Euler characteristic (−1)dimR M/2 χ(M)≥0 (resp. >0).



C.-L. Huang, K.-F. Liu, X.-Y. Wan, Xiaokui Yang,  Logarithmic vanishing theorems on compact Kahler manifolds I. (arXiv:1611.07671) 
In this paper, we first establish an L2-type Dolbeault isomorphism for logarithmic differential forms by Hormander's L2-estimates. By using this isomorphism and the construction of smooth Hermitian metrics, we obtain a number of new vanishing theorems for sheaves of logarithmic differential forms on compact Kähler manifolds with simple normal crossing divisors, which generalize several classical vanishing theorems, including Norimatsu's vanishing theorem, Gibrau's vanishing theorem, Le Potier's vanishing theorem and a version of the Kawamata-Viehweg vanishing theorem.


</span>
